---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Embracing JavaScript
date: 2017-01-18
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - JavaScript
---



I definitely had some mixed feelings about JavaScript before I started this course. The majority of my programming experience has been in C++, but I tend to use Python for quick scripting jobs. I must say I was a bit disappointed when I first heard that the ICS314 “Software Engineering” class was going to be in JavaScript. My initial impression was that JavaScript is used mostly for web applications and front-end development, and I am not too interested in those areas. I know JavaScript has the capability for more. However, I felt like I would have to spend time learning a whole new language that I was not interested in while my proficiency in the languages I am interested in declined. To my surprise, JavaScript is very similar to Python, so the learning curve on the basic elements has been pretty small. I’m sure as we get into the more advanced features I'll find bigger differences. 

So, do I think it is a good language from a software engineering perspective? Since it is a relatively simple language, I feel that it will be good for teaching software engineering principals without bogging down an entire class with a tougher language where all the students might not at the same level. It seems perfectly suitable for teaching processes, learning how to code on a team, and building small applications or software.  However, since JavaScript mostly lives in a web browser and was created for web purposes, I do not feel as if it’s the best language for an in-depth understanding of software engineering beyond basic principals. 

Altogether, I might change some of my preconceived notions of JavaScript once we start to really use it and move past the introduction problems and basics. The pedagogy for the class in the form of timed fluency tests is a little nerve wracking, but I think I will appreciate it in the end. It ensures that the student truly understands what they are doing since they wouldn’t have time to look up answers. I’m a little nervous for the first real test, since I tend to freeze under pressure, but I think I will end up appreciating them in the long run! I am also excited to see what projects we do in the class and if I grow to like JavaScript!
